and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning and to check out my free guides
playbooks podcasts or whenever you're
ready to apply to work with me head over
to samd ding.
org so today we've got returning guest
the UK's most hated sales trainer also
more forly known as Benjamin Den we're
going to be diving into why Founders
bloody suck at in and how you can fix it
we're going to be talking a bit about
the
mindset can anyone learn to sell because
you've got more technical Founders
you've got more Founders that are used
to selling and everything in between
what the usual mindset around it is
where you should get started and we're
going to share some practical tips that
both Benjamin and I have used for our
businesses so with that Benjamin welcome
back to the show Squire how are we I do
well yes it's nice to be back so thank
you for having me on obviously didn't
piss off enough people the first time so
let's let see what we can do now right
plenty of time in the next 30 40 minutes
so as we always do let's get let's crack
on straight away with the subject so all
right first and foremost something I've
seen over the years and I'm sure you're
exactly the same Benjamin why do so many
Founders so many people start a business
but then realize they're absolutely
awful when it comes to sales why is that
what the answer is obvious because no
one sets up a business to be a
Salesman why do you set up a business
it's because you have an idea or a
concept or a pro or you've got something
that you love and you passionately
believe is going to change people's
lives or make them better or whatever it
is that drives you but you're it's like
your firstborn child so to you it's the
most amazing important precious
beautiful thing in the world and so you
go into business and you think I want
people to have this I want other people
to thrive on this and so they set up a
business and they don't realize it but
now you got to sell it
you've actually got to sell it's not
it's not like Kevin Costner's Field of
Dreams build it and they will come sort
of thing no and that's when they realize
I can't sell but they have initial
success and they do do okay actually
that's not true because 80 was it 80% of
businesses fa in the first 12 months
something like that isn't it it's
something whether it's 12 months three
years whatever it is it always boils
down to the fact that you can't sell it
and what you do is if you've got
something that you're passionate about
that'll work for a while you get in
front of people and you're like tiger on
speed and this is amazing just give me a
shots yeah and some people all right all
right I get it I love it okay we're in
and she have these IM missile sales
built off your passion and energy but
that can't last forever and you're very
rarely able to pass that on to employees
so you're never going to get you know
you may be lucky but find a Salesman
that can exu as much enthusiasm and
energy for this light you and treat it
like there's their own so what happens
is is after some initial success and
getting a bit of a base they want to
step back from it and they realize
actually I don't really know how to sell
and what's worse is because I don't know
how to sell I don't know how to hire
sales people and that's one of the
reasons why they fail if you don't know
how to sell how do you hire a Salesman
what are you looking for and so they end
up hiring people that look good and
sound good and can you know wow them
like they wow
people so I think there with my business
as well for sure for sure that's the
reason people set up businesses not to
be salesman they set up businesses
because they have a passion but you got
to sell the passion that's why yeah it's
a fair point and I think in today's
episode I want to focus on bootstrap
Founders I don't want to talk about
Founders that have got a ton of funding
that have the Lend luxury where they can
think well I'm more technically minded
so I'm not even going to go near a sales
conversation I can hire a bunch of sales
people or even hire a sales leader who's
got experience to hire sales people so
we're going to leave that aside and
we're going to talk about kind of
Founders are in the heat of it and like
you said I think I think passion can get
you so far so perhaps you've got a
brilliant idea around an offer whether
that is a product service or SAS
solution something in between and then
you can you can um have the passion so
you have those fired up conversations
perhaps you start networking or you
bring in your friends and your close
Network and then you start you close a
few deals with them but then like you
say it comes to kind of month two or
three you're thinking oh [__] like
revenue's down I've almost burnt through
half my savings like how the heck am I
going to keep keep money on the table
and keep this business of FL yeah it's
why aren't people buying I'm not doing
anything different and it's like well
because when you first started it was
new and but now you realize just doing
more of the same energetic j j j doesn't
work because that's not how people buy
that's not how selling works it's like
anyone could fake being a surgeon most
of us could probably maybe I don't know
get partway through an operation before
anyone figured out we didn't really know
what we were doing so you can fake stuff
yeah and that's what happens and after a
while you're not systematically closing
you're not systematically prospecting
you don't know how to do that you just
rely on well what I've done has worked
so far I don't know why it's not working
anymore yeah that's because energy and
passion and enthusiasm are not a sales
strategy yeah they work for a while but
they run out of
steam what some of the key issues that
you've seen with you've spoken to a
bunch of Founders entrepreneurs and
everyone in between over the years and I
think this will be vitally useful not
just for Founders if you're listening in
but I think this could be anyone that's
aspiring to start their own business at
some stage or perhaps any sales reps or
marketing EXs that just need a bit of a
lighter up their ass to kind of give
them some tips so what are some of the
big mistakes you see um more focused
around Founders when it comes of the the
S strategy or lack thereof uh one is the
belief that you got to have all your
ducks in row got to have the website got
to have the collateral got to have this
got to have that so they spend all the
time building this
wonderful
thing and it's like you know you need to
sell it and all you need to sell it is a
phone book and a phone yeah and you need
getting in front of it you don't need a
website yeah but what if you f people up
and they go can we have a look at your
website I got nowhere to see who yeah
like the website suddenly gonna make the
go oh my God I can't believe I've never
seen this before yes I'll buy thank you
for calling
yeah it's it's it's excuses to avoid
doing the tough things so they do all
the really nice things that you like
doing bit irritating but I quite like a
new website looks kind of cool that I
can send people to it I love to create
the collateral and all that it look I
like that it's a head eight you got to
do it but and then I do all of that then
right now I've got to sell and then I
realize all this collateral and [__]
that they created doesn't actually help
them sell and prosper and so we've just
wasted months and all this money on
stuff that doesn't AIT no start selling
stuff get in front of people you don't
need a website you can have a one page
what what do you guys call it a landing
page yeah take about 10 minutes to knock
to it's a brochure no one buys well no
this is that's a sweeping statement but
very rarely is anyone going to stumble
across your website say oh my God this
is so awesome I'm just going to buy
whatever's on it just just worked like
that so that's one of the biggest
mistakes is focusing on all the shiny
shiny kind of glossy stuff that they
think they need and they're ignoring the
main thing you need to be getting in
front of people to talk to to sell this
yeah and that doesn't require anything
fancy just a phone and some numbers and
the commitment to do it so that that
would be the first thing I'd say the
second thing I'd say is we've already
touched on it a lot of people
particularly when they set up a business
don't want to do the
selling so they hire someone and they
often go for someone with experience in
the sector yeah so they look for someone
that comes from a similar background
thinking that well all I have to do is
show the product show them how it works
sit back and uh the money will roll in
unfortunately again it very rarely goes
that way because most sales people this
this is the first thing I always say if
a salesperson's looking for a job you
should already be
suspicious why is a salesperson looking
I don't get why why do you yeah sales
people should not be unemployed
particularly good ones so there's no
legitimate reason for someone to apply
for your job that's what I that's so I'd
be suspicious yeah if you were doing it
properly you'd poke
someone right or they'd be or they'd use
a different approach wouldn't they they
wouldn't go through a standard upload
their CV onto a job portal or that kind
of thing they they call you or they'd do
an unusual email Outreach or video
Outreach or send you something in the
mail or meet you or something like that
something
unusual you say yeah so I'm I'm what 46
if a 46 year old guy applied to you for
a sales job I am probably pretty
[__] yeah because a guy of my age
probably shouldn't be looking for a job
because if I was good I wouldn't be
unemployed so why am I
unemployed why don't want have I I now
there could be some legitimate reasons
there'll be a few but most of the time
it's like why are you looking for a new
job you know new experience that's co-
thought I'm G to lose my current
job yeah so so so
the second biggest mistake is hiring
people that can't sell they get sold on
the salesman very good at selling
themselves oh yeah I got plenty of
experience and they can rattle you
through we're going to do this we're g
to do this we're going to do this we're
going to focus on this we're going to
Target on this oh sounds good and then
you get them on payroll y I tell you
what why don't you make some calls N I
don't really
Prospect what I'm a social seller yeah
I'm a social seller it's about building
relationships [__] I could have built
relationships yeah I hired you to go and
kick down doors yeah but they don't and
they don't realize that so they never
put them through their Paces they don't
employ people that can do the job
everybody in sales meetings lies they
all say they like prospecting oh yeah
yeah I can Prospect but they don't do it
when they're paid or if they do do it
they've got a 1,1 excuses as to why they
can't get on the phone oh we need
collateral you keep asking me to send an
email I don't have anything to S so I'll
spend the next few weeks pulling
something
together and so that's the second one
yeah they hire people that can't sell
because they don't know what they're
looking for um I've been third one would
be you're too reliant on social
selling um yeah social selling Works
don't get me wrong I fact I don't like
the phrase social selling I call it
social marketing because that's
all I socially Market I use YouTube I
use LinkedIn I use tter all of that
though to create content that entertains
and draws people in then they either
come direct to me and then I sell or
they go to a website and they place an
order so I cover both bases I'm an order
taker and a
sales but um yeah so I would say those
are the top three top three reasons why
suck I like it and I didn't even bite on
the first one investing too much into a
into a shiny website even though I run a
B2B website and SEO company but I
actually think you're right especially
if you're bootstrapped well I've even
done a bunch of content on this on my
podcast and on LinkedIn
there's no point in getting distracted
with a kind of state-of-the-arts website
that's going to cost you 10 20 grand
take you months and months to design
build put out the content because all
you want to start was an MVP whether
that is a landing page or a couple pages
that just shares what you do problem you
fix how you help quick maybe couple
testimonials maybe an idea of your
pricing and an easy way to get in touch
that's it that is all you need just so
then if you're doing that prospecting we
making some sales conversations people
can flick on it see that you're legit
check you do you can do what you say you
do have a quick idea of how you cost and
then carry on the convo that's it until
you get you would think nobody sold
anything prior to the internet the way
people talk about right oh no you got
it's a what happened before 1995 when
the internet kind of started what the
hell were people doing for a thousand
years it's like they were talking to
people they were picking up the phone uh
you know there there was none of this
nonsense that you're told you must have
I get now the world's changed and all of
these things are important but they're
not necessary to sell pick up the phone
get a phone book buy some data get some
numbers the cost is almost zero you buy
the data that's going to be your biggest
expense most of youve got minutes Galore
for free so yeah it's literally there's
no cost to this yet it's the one thing I
avoid doing because it's tough it's
uncomfortable I don't know how to do it
lot of rejection let's [__] waste
months building a website and hope that
by the end of it people will just give
us cash
yeah yeah yeah and I'd counter that with
saying especially if you're a bootstrap
founder which we're kind of focusing on
today's podcast you're probably not
going to have the cash to actually
Market that website effectively so
you're probably not going to have the
time or money unless you've got the
expertise to spend on things like SEO or
Google ads or other forms of paid media
that drive traffic to your site to
convert so unless you've got a ton of
cash to invest in that Inbal marketing
strategy the website is just build an
MVP because then you've got a decent
brochure site that people can flick at
when you strike the conversation on the
second Point s hiring salesp people the
second Point completely agree' been
there with our businesses um I've hired
we've hired people that have kind of
walk the walk talk the talk been super
enthusiastic giv it the proper gift of
the gab job and then you hire them date
a week into the job you're thinking what
the heck are they doing it's like why
aren't you on the phone why aren't you
striking up conversations and then
they've got every excuse under the book
like you say whether that's social
selling or um building relationships or
it's not a quick thing every excuse
under the book and then I've got to get
my head around the product and
understand sales people this is true
there's no other profession in the world
that constantly needs a ramp up period
whenever they start somewhere new so
imagine a lawyer you know a lawyer who
lives in London decides to relocate to
Manchester and he gets up there and his
Law Firm says you're in court this week
oh no no no I I can't I haven't been in
a courtroom in Manchester I I can't no
no no I I'm going to have to just get a
feel for how things are so [__] the LA
is the law doesn't matter where you are
same with surgery you don't do in a new
hospital it's I can't do operating I
just got to get a feel first for the
fear man you're straight in because the
skill comes with you it's got nothing to
do with the product it's what's up here
so it should take you about half a day
to get ramped up when you start the
Sal's job what is this
fix who cares so what and why and that's
it I'm ready to start selling it yeah
it's it's so it's all just sales people
are exceptionally good at making
excuses yeah well I would too if I was
doing a job I didn't want to
do it's going to say if you're getting a
high based salary can get away with it
then you can kind of kind of understand
the poor companies that are employing
them um yeah I know that's why there's a
that's why I look forward to the next
recession because it's good for business
owners because what happens is is you
end up laying off people but then you
realize the same amount of money still
coming in and then you real what the
hell were they do it oh they were just
taking the 45k commission doing some
basic prospecting and uh yeah feeding
you along yeah no you honestly yeah the
world would work better without Sal's
people I
reckon it's funny one um yeah we move on
point three yes too reliant on social
selling or your word social marketing
marketing yeah I think especially I mean
it's a funny one I suppose with a with a
Founder like it's definitely useful but
then at the same time especially
speaking from my own point of view it
can be a massive time sync right can it
you can easily before you know it spend
hours on on a platform like LinkedIn and
what you actually achieved well this is
it it's a return on investment right so
I mean I get it I used it I I when I
started on LinkedIn
2015 I think but I remember when I
started my LinkedIn strategy and that
was in 2016 but I knew because it's like
prospecting I said to myself this is
going to take probably a couple of years
before it ever pays any dividends
because I needed people to genuinely see
me as an expert I didn't want to say I
was an expert I didn't want to label
myself an expert CU then I don't trust
anyone that has to tell you they're an
expert that doesn't make any sense so I
knew that I would have to build a
reputation build a presence build a
connection with the audience and that
would take that doesn't happen with a
coule no no no no it takes a while
because it takes a while for the message
so I knew it's two years before I'd
maybe even get anything really
worthwhile from it and it did take years
years because I was focused on doing it
right prospecting the whole time never
One Stop prospecting because it's
immediate it's instant and it Mets
results quickly but the LinkedIn was
always there it'll come it'll come it'll
come it's part of the every business
everyone I'm I'm the same everyone who
sets up a business wants to get to the
point in the business where they don't
have to do anything people just give
them money like McDonald's all they got
to do is keep making great ads and
delivering the same quality of food and
they're always GNA have orders and they
just take orders it's just order just
keep the orders coming I'm the same I
hated prospecting I was very good at it
but I hated it and I used to say I can't
wait for the day when I don't have to
prospect right and people say well
that's outrageous you teach it yeah I
teach it so you can get out of it
because once you get really good at it
you no longer have to do it again
because you've done enough to have built
up a business where people start coming
to you so and this is so focus on what
man is build the business the social
selling and all of that crap that will
kick in once you've built something and
then it will work but it's not what
you'd start off doing unless you're a
super hot chick and you're doing stuff
on LinkedIn and you just get millions of
views purely because you look super hot
yeah there are people like that I used
to be like that obviously yeah 20 years
yeah something happened I think I got
hit by a number 10 bus and I had to
start again as an ugly guy in a red hat
and that was a lot harder than being a
pop chip
classic classic I'll share something
interesting a bit later about Prospect
in an experiment that I've run um cool
those are the three common mistakes
avoiding basically avoiding the glossy
shiny objects whether that is a website
whether that is something else yeah
hiring the wrong kind of sales people or
hiring sales people in general until
you've probably nailed some Revenue
yourself I reckon especially if you're
bootstrapped and then too reliant on
kind of social selling marketing
LinkedIn or whatever the channels may be
so with that said because we're going to
have founders that are perhaps kind of
technically minded like super smart when
it comes to maybe the engineering side
of building the product maybe some some
that are good super good at managing
people maybe some are super good perhaps
they think they're good at selling or
they're good at building relationships
whatever but can anyone
sell can anyone
sell I think so I don't think I mean I'm
an idiot and I can do it right um
there's not really a lot to this it's
it's a skill set and all skill sets can
be learned you've just got to want to
learn it if you don't want to learn it
then no you'll never be good at sales
it's not hard to get people to give you
money and I think that's one of the
things we got to um get clear a lot of
people confuse selling with people
giving you money right right so I can
sit by an ATM with a cup saying homeless
and people will give me money that
doesn't make me a
Salesman yeah with McDonald's like I say
McDonald's doesn't sell anything it's in
the order fulfillment business you go
and place an order in fact that's what
they should say to you if they good
right you know may I take your order
yeah the decision to buy had been made
before you've gone in so there're an
order fulfillment so selling though is
where you've got something that maybe
someone has or hasn't heard about but
you know it fixes problems that
prospects may or may not have and your
job is to get in front of them and say
hey look this could fix this and then
having them say you know what you're
right let's buy yeah and then obviously
so so it's not hard to get someone to
give you money and so if you work like
ever heard that saying nobody ever got
fired for hiring
IBM haven't heard that one actually it
was big I think it was an ad campaign in
the 80s basically if you hire IBM it's
gonna work brilliantly and you won't get
fired and it is it is so if you're an
IBM
salesman you're not selling Jack IBM's
it's the bre they're buying the name
you're just the conduit you're you're
just a glorified utaker it's like uh no
one no one sells cars or houses these
things sell themselves it's it's the
people in between that get in the way of
preventing someone buying right so and
they talk to about all the features and
the benefits and they end up boring you
to hell and you think you know what
bollocks to this all they're slimy and
sleazy so yeah separating selling from
order taking is important um yeah anyway
I've lost my train of thought but I I
wrote down a few notes so you were
saying you you've got to I think the
first point is probably vital you've got
to have the right mindset so you've got
to actually almost realize you've got to
put in graft and work to actually make
this a success and understand that
you're not selling a object or an offer
or benefit you're actually selling the
solution to someone's
problems yeah too many people don't get
that um or if they do they pay lip
service to it and they're so focused on
wanting to talk about what they do how
they do it why they do it the problem is
nobody gives a rat's ass I don't care
what I want to know is why would I want
this and that's not me asking the
question it's you need to ask ask
yourself why would anyone want this and
it can't be happy clappy stuff it'll
make them feel
better again I'm not motivated by that
it's got to be something that's hurting
me that'll make me want to spend time
and money so you got to ask yourself
what would my Prospect most likely be
pissed off with frustrated concerned
with annoyed irritated with that this
fixes that they may not even be aware
they're experiencing until I point it
out to them and then when they hear yeah
we do have that yeah we do have that
yeah well this can fix it so yeah
getting it right the other thing is most
people are in sales by default not
design very few people want to be in
sales and by that I mean when you're at
school and you asked what do you want to
be when you grow up I maybe one in every
thousand said
salesman all the rest said lawyer doctor
accountant
architect really cool but then they went
to University or they dropped out of
school
and once they finished whatever it was
suddenly they realized no one's going to
pay me for 18th century French portrait
impressionist opinions unless I get a
job in the Lou and there's only one
going every 10 years so I now have all
this knowledge it's useless I need a job
you're young you're thin you look good
in a suit you don't dribble you are now
qualified to enter the world of sales
that's how they get into it they needed
a job so why do you why are you here I
need a job they can't say that so they
say well you know I've always been
interested in business I like sales I've
I've always wanted to I've seen my Bo I
need a job until someone will pay me to
talk about French impressionist
art and then they get stuck because
after about two years of being in sales
it hits you there's no transferable
skill set here what do you do after
being a Salesman unless you set up a
business I've never seen a job say
wanted X sales
people that's a fair comment what what
skill set do you bring so uh you are
trapped and that's what happens they get
stuck there and then written on the
epith as something like you know born
2010 died
2040 but buried 2080 they've for the far
years they've having the same year over
and over again it's terrible so I'm
brutal on sales people but it's true
because I used to be that way I'm a
lawyer I fell into selling I didn't want
to do this I had far better plans for my
life turns out I've got really good at
this and I love this but when I first
got into it I needed a job it's the only
reason I went into
sales so I mean you're exactly right
none of us really well certainly I
didn't do it by choice and what happened
to us is kind of when um when you re
whatever you do whether it is kind of
use LinkedIn as a tool to generate
business or generate sales conversations
whether you've got some kind of inbound
marketing set up whether that's running
ads running SEO email marketing whatever
to get you some inbound traffic and
inquiries whatever you're doing
something else you realize that a lot of
the time you're going up against other
vendors so most of the time these people
are speaking to three or four companies
you realize you're not after long you're
losing deals for the same reason
consistently um and you start to think
well if I don't start winning more
business in the next few months either
I'm going to lose my job as a sales rep
but in our case we're focused on
Founders then things aren't going to
keep going no so um and then you focus
something has to shift yeah and you
start thinking why is it not working why
is no but maybe we need to change this
maybe and so you start fiddling with the
product or the service or it's like it's
got nothing to do with that it's the
fact that you don't actually know how to
sell you've had some success and people
have given you money and you keep trying
to replicate that but you can't
replicate something that's luck that's
just happen so now they're stuck and
then they start tweaking and fiddling
with the wrong bits it's like you got to
look in the mirror and say I actually
don't know what I'm doing and if you're
honest why did we win all the business
we've won what was it and you'll lie to
yourself at first well we've got a great
Pro okay cut through all the [__]
why did your prospect actually buy from
you and then the guy don't know so if
you don't know why they actually bought
from you not your reasons why they did
how are you ever going to replicate what
you do because you're
literally I I don't know people just
give me money if they like it that's
that's not a sales
strategy so let's let's try and share a
few actionables um can we talked about
common mistakes if anyone can sell talk
about understanding the problems that
your offering is going to
fix what should have founder do they've
probably heard all this and without
absolutely demoralized thinking yeah
some of this rings a bell or or perhaps
all of it rings a bell or perhaps a
small portion does what are the let's
say we're we're at the scenario that
we've talked about where perhaps we've
we've gotten we've gotten maybe two or
three months in we've had a little bit
of success but now we thought things are
drying up a bit and if I don't take a
massive shift now then in a few months
Things Are going to hit the pot um what
would you what would you what would you
say to these people like what are the
first actions that they should
take the first
actions it's really
unsexy it's um you've got to figure out
who do we need to be in front of and how
are we going to get in front of them
it's that simple and it comes down to
grunt work uh which is picking up the
phones I don't mind if you use email I
don't really care but you've got a
prospect and this is it's an ug word
it's an unpleasant word it comes from
gold mining how much dirt how many rocks
do you have to wash to find
gold a lot yeah that's why it's called
prospecting that's why we call this
prospecting right now within a 100 miles
of you Mr founder who's struggling right
now within 100 miles I bet there are 10
companies today that would buy your
product because it fixes something
that's pissing them off the only problem
you have is is you don't know where
those 10 are
but they're there so what you need to do
is figure out well what sectors are we
going to sell so let's say telecoms
right I know that within 100 miles of us
there are 400 telecoms companies I
suspect out of those 400 based on why we
created this PR at least 40 of them are
going to be suffering from what we fixed
today we need to get in front of those
40 people problem is is there's another
360 to talk
to now if you're lucky if God is on your
side all 40 first calls get through the
40 companies yeah that would be awesome
yeah then it's this wouldn't be
prospecting it would literally be
plucking gold wouldn't
it doesn't work like that you've got 400
potential companies you're going to have
to phone you may get through a hundred
before anyone expresses any interest
people give up people quit ah this is
too
hard and that's why it's like what is it
what what percentage of people made
money during the gold rushes something
like 5%
of actual Prospectors made money because
digging in the wrong area giving up too
soon uh overex all of the yes so this is
why very few people get rich doing this
because it is hard and it takes time and
if you're mining in the wrong area you
know you may have got it all wrong
you're selling your product you believe
to a certain I know but then there's
actually there's a better one that you
could be so you got to get this all
right who are we selling to why would
want to buy our product what would they
be suffering from why would that
motivate them to want to change and does
our product fix that and if so how do I
put that together succinctly phone them
up and tell
them and that that is how unsexy it is
because that is it there's no magic
bullet yes you could be fortunate and
create a video that goes viral and gets
viewed 20 I like that guy um he's a
classic ex that American country folk
singer the one that went viral must be
about a month ago he's standing in his
Bush and he's singing that song uh and
it's really he's got an amazing voice
but he suddenly was trending he was
bigger than Taylor Swift uh he was
automatically offered at 8
million deal to come and record his
music and he turned it all down he said
no I never went into this you get a few
people like that that have that amazing
success but again he'd been posting
videoos
for ages he'd been posting that song for
ages it just so happened this particular
one somehow just got caught up in the
weirdness that as the internet and and
he was catapulted into stardom and
buckets of money they're the exceptions
but people look at these exceptions and
say all I've got to
do is get that one bit of content no
most of us are going to have to be down
in the trenches picking up the phones
meeting people and eventually you'll get
to a point where you won't because youve
built something that people say well I
know that brand and I trust that brand
and I know people that have used that
brand and they don't need to sell me on
it I'm pretty much in yeah that's where
you want to get but the grunt work
cannot be underestimated so if you set
up a business you have to be prepared to
Prospect and if you're not prepare to
fail yeah yeah I I actually agree like
even running a marketing company when um
being bootstrapped and things like that
like I say often not going to have the
money to invest in marketing ads or
elsewhere so if you can get these skills
which are bloody hard to put into play
but if you can actually take the effort
to work out like you said the these are
fundamentals not for for sales but for
marketing as well if you can clearly and
succinctly understand exactly who is an
ideal client profile for you what
verticals what industry they're in what
are the kind of job titles they
typically are is it is it are they the
owner they like small to medium
businesses or are they like the market
director VP marketing CMO or stuff like
that um what kind of top two or three
problems are they facing what's the
impact of those problems that they'll
have on their business what happens if
they don't fix it what are the kind of
repercussions and what are the outcomes
that you offer brings like just knowing
that and you have to be smart with it
too because the problem a lot of people
have is they um they come up with one
way of expressing what they do and then
they use that on everyone but you've got
to look at the structure of a business a
managing director views the world very
differently from the finance director
who views it differently from the HR
Director who's different from the sales
though because they've all got their own
agendas and they've all got their own
priorities so you go in and you you
create something that works really well
with sales directors and you're able to
nail sales directors with what you do
and they buy you then take the same way
and do it to a managing director and
then you for some reason they're not
interested or they're not biting as much
you know I don't get it why because
you're talking about the problem
probably in a way that doesn't appeal to
the MD it appealed to the SS director
because you're tapping into things so
you've got to be smart you can't have
the same message for everyone it's got
to be different messages different
message for the MD different message for
the FD different message for the HR
Director if those three can buy your
stuff different messaging a lot of
people don't do that they just say the
same thing over and over again yeah
that's a good point that's yeah that's a
good point shifting your messaging or
approach to who you're actually talking
to what they what they personally care
about I'll share a fair quick story for
for the audience that might give some
Founders a little spark of hope after
all of what sounds like extremely hard
work so I thought to myself it's
probably about a similar time last year
I thought every day I'm spending at
least two or so hours on my desktop on
LinkedIn and I thought there's no need
for that like I can flick some of that
time into something else yeah so I
thought I've spoken to so well I've
spoken to you a few times on the show as
a sales trainer I've spoken to a bunch
of other sales trainers entrepreneurs
we've had nearly 400 episodes so I've
learned all the this and i' I've read
some of the leading sales book so I
think I know how to raise problems and
kind of the impact of them and
repercussions I thought [__] it I'll um
I'm going to buy some data from a tool
I'm GNA fire up a dialer and what's the
worst that can happen I'll do maybe one
or two hours a week um and like you say
it was hard I was literally the first
couple times I did it cuz I had cold Co
in previous sales jobs I hadn't done it
much yeah since I'd kind of rejoined
this company and become an owner and my
podcast company as well and I thought
started off tough but then you soon
realized like a lot of people you speak
to especially on phone conversations a
surprised because they don't get called
on the phone so many people are used to
getting hounded on email hounded on
LinkedIn and any other channels so a lot
of the time they're quite pleasantly
surprised and you go in expecting to get
H abuse and be told to f off and the
rest of it just doesn't happen yeah you
get the odd one you get the odd one yes
if you lead with some of the openers and
Ben's been on the podcast many times so
just search Benjamin Den Sam Dunning or
Benjamin Den business growth show and
you'll see all our kind of past episodes
on cold Cooling and running a demo and
all that good stuff but you'll be
surprised but we just by doing let's say
one to two hours of prospecting a week I
think I've done nearly 100K in Revenue
just by doing a couple spare spare hours
it's brilliant so it shows you that
people aren't expecting these calls and
if you do it in a a way where going kind
of problem focused around what that
Persona you're going after actually
cares about and calling into the right
level you can generate probably a couple
extra appointments let's say one or so
appointments each week yeah and that's
going to impact your pipeline not
immediately but for let's say the next
couple months to come and have a knock
on effect so if you get if you're a
Founder with limited cash just doing
this this this kind of stuff in your
spare time where you would have been
messing about on LinkedIn like I was um
can really have a a decent effect on
your business that's just an experiment
for me like I say we we obviously do our
own SEO we do our own ads we do LinkedIn
we get a decent amount of leads but I
thought what if I take a couple hours a
week that I was pissing about on
LinkedIn and just trial this and yeah
those results surprise me quite a lot
that's really good no yeah exactly
there's a lot of business out there
there's a lot of business to be had and
you are right um people don't pick up
the phone as much as they used to
because they're scared of it younger
people in particular even yeah so yeah
no you
people are willing to talk particularly
if you ask good questions not a name
questions they got to be questions
designed to keep the conversation moving
and if you get that right that
combination then people talk like you
say occasionally you meet the odd dick
but you get that in any area of life you
meet someone they having a shitty day
and you phone up they found someone
having a worse day than them so they
dump on you but sales people hold on to
those one experiences as if it's the
norm and then then it scares them and oh
you can't well I said that once and this
guy went off so try it again just cuz
one guy didn't like it doesn't mean you
stop so yeah you are right you are and
it does pay dividends everyone that
prospects consistently with a decent
degree of you know technique always says
I've made money from it because it's
impossible not to make money from it
unless you
suck yeah yeah yeah and like I say check
check out the previous episodes with
Benjamin on on the podcast and you'll
see you'll see some of those tips um and
I I'll do a dedicated solo episode in
the future with that cold calling
experience so anyone found us tuning in
they can catch that soon and I'll share
all the tools that we used but we've
talked about this a bit on previous
shows but it's just some of the
fundamentals Benjamin because I'm
sure people are used to I think I've
been on this problem as well where
people have um kind of messaged me on
LinkedIn I've thought it was like an
inbound lead or they've emailed me or
someone that I've spoken to before and
they've been like can I pick your brains
for 15 minutes or can I talk about in my
case websites or SEO for 15 minutes and
I know when you start you're chomping at
the bit for any kind of sales convo you
can get but quite often as you've
probably experienced those can be um
absolute Tire kickers time was is and
they only want to kind of pull as much
information as they can from your brain
and then basically buger off well that's
that's that's that's one of the
downsides with social
selling uh you see because what you do
is you attract a lot of people that are
intellectually curious but are broke or
have no desire to spend any money and
they reach out and they flat you hey
really love your content really enjoy
what you're pumping out there would love
to have a chat about potentially maybe
doing some work together at some point
it's all very vague and wishy-washy with
a lot of compliments we couldn't have a
brief chat could we and then all they
want to do is pump you for
information um and then they disappear
yeah it's that that that's one of the
downsides to generating inbound leads
because you have no control over the
quality of what's coming in so then you
got to do your filtering and how do you
filter without wasting a lot of
time
yeah yeah yeah and that's that's where a
website can be useful because if you say
send them to your website and your
website's perhaps got pricing or it's
got information about your process or
you have to pay to book a call or
something else then you can kind of
filter out the ti so that's when it can
be useful but usually I I charge people
to talk to me see I I got this all the
time and um one day I thought I thought
you know what bollocks to this I get so
many of these leads and 85% of them turn
out to be big yes so I set up uh you
have to pay to talk to me so whenever I
get a message now um and I get a lot
people say hey Benjamin really enjoyed
your stuff would love to have a chat
about potentially doing some sales
training I say that's great book a
consult
call and we can have a chat for an hour
or
so and as soon as most people realize I
got to pay they go oh nah that's all
right I was just you know really I had
well I won't mention any names but I had
a I had a I had a I had a founder of a
company reached out to me a tech company
SAS whatever the hell it was and he said
Benjamin we've created an AI phone call
we'd love for you to critique it we'd
love to send it for you and you critique
it and I said fine I said well look I'll
tell you what that's probably going to
take me an hour or two book some of my
onetoone coaching sessions and I'll do
it oh no no no we don't know no no no we
don't have any money or anything like
that we just really so you're a starter
up with no money you're paying all these
developers when you thought I was free
you couldn't wait to get my opinion and
then the moment I said oh no I'm going
to charge you oh no and it's like [__]
off I know what you're doing and it
ain't gonna work I'm not a charity I'm
not here yeah you know it's like no and
you have to do that and I and 85% of
people go away I've got a 95% close rate
on people that pay because theyve
effectively said we need a sales train
and we just don't know if it's you so
we're already halfway there we've
eliminated the Curious yeah and of the
5% that I don't sell to it's usually by
mutual agreement that we're not right
for each other and every now and then
every six months because I have to do
this because I'm a a masochist or a
sadist I don't know what the phrases
every six months I let someone talk to
me for
free you record it and put it on your
YouTube don't you well because every
single time I let someone talk to me for
free they ghost you happens every and I
do to remind myself this is why I charge
for the calls because whenever I do
anything
free they ghost you and I do it as a
reminder because I get people say well
you must be losing business because I
wouldn't pay to talk to you well then
you were never going to pay if you can't
afford 170 quid to talk to me how are
you going to afford the fees for the
training yeah so no it filters out and
if I did lose out on someone that could
have been a client I'll never
know can't lose something I never had so
I don't care no that's it and even if
you're not in a luxury where you've got
tons of inquiries coming in I think just
having some kind of qualification
process whether that's perhaps someone
says I'd like to talk to you for 15
minutes we just query that a bit more if
you don't have a website you can send
them to where it has like your pricing
your process and booking time and your
calendar maybe you just dive into it and
just say what exactly did you want to
discuss you could just say something
even polite like sorry I get tons of
inquiries could you share exactly what
you wanted to discuss what it involves
and what you're hoping to get out of the
cool and that way they're actually going
to share like oh I was looking for
information on this or my manager wanted
to know this and then you can say it's
probably best I just tell you now and
then you can work out if it's work y
yeah I love it when I get the well my
boss has asked me to look into
this well well I'm my boss and my boss
says he can't be asked wasting time with
someone that's been asked by someone
else to look into there so now if your
boss isn't willing to talk to me then
I'm not willing to start this
dance I love that with P my boss won't
talk to you then why we why would we so
the person that's going to sign the
check won't talk to the person he's got
to send the check to so if you were me
would you start this process seems a
waste of everybody's
time yeah the classic so we've got about
five minutes before you got a dash oh
wow we've we've done um we've done this
a bit before but I think it's going to
be useful to to recap it let's say um as
a Founder we've we've got a conversation
with a prospect and we believe so far
it's maybe somewhat qualified so perhaps
we've either reached out to them
email cool LinkedIn whatever or they've
come to us and we've asked a few very
basic qualification questions yeah so we
believe they've got a problem we we can
fix and maybe a bit of cash what are
your top recommendations in the next
couple minutes for actually running that
sales school um in terms of kind of how
it should be done and this hopefully can
flip a lot of people's opinions on what
should be done on its head well the
problem with most sales meetings is
they're like they're they're a dog and
pony show it's basically people show up
throw up and hope yeah um and it comes
it often comes down to their behaviors
driven by scarcity most sales people are
Never Getting in front of enough people
and because they're never in front of
enough people whoever they do get in
front of they want to win because if
they don't win them then they're in even
more trouble because they're not going
to hit their target so it all comes back
to prospecting if you're not getting in
front of more people than you can sell
to you're always going to struggle and
so when you're in front of somebody with
the scarcity mindset
and I got to get a deal I got to get a
sale I I need this you're now
emotionally attached to the outcome
which determines you're going to behave
in a way that is not in your best
interest and most sales people then tend
to come across as a bit submissive
compliant they could get a bit uh
pugilistic because uh if they feel the
prospect isn't going the way they want
it to go they start to feel frustrated
because they don't get it we could fix
their problems I don't understand say
why they don't see it so then you end up
so so their entire behavior and all the
techniques they adopt are more likely to
frustrate the process they'll get
trapped in answering questions and
because they want them to be liked and
they don't want to upset them so then
they don't do their job and their
job when you get in front of a prospect
when I get in front of a
prospect um I know this this is all I
know they need
me I don't need
them now it's hard to think like that if
you haven't been prospecting you got no
Pipeline and you're so that's your fault
so when people say yeah but you can only
act like that when you're doing well
it's like well why are you not doing
well so it's always your fault so now
that I know this I'm sitting in front of
them and I now know they need me I don't
need them I'm not here to convince them
of why they should use my celles train I
know my sales training works the
question for me is are you suitable to
be my next customer why should I sell to
you why should I help you can you
convince me you need help you see if
someone can't convince me then why would
they spend a load of money and time so
my job in the sales meeting is to
challenge everything I need them to
basically put the case as to why I
should help them now I'm making it sound
very simplistic it'sit more complicated
than that but that's the general thing I
am not there to convince you why you
should work with me I'm there for you to
convince me why I should help you
because I know the stuff works because I
built an entire business around it and
it works it doesn't matter what you sell
you you sell widgets these widgets work
we sell them all over the world they
work so I'm not here to convince you why
you should buy these widgets yeah tell
me why should we sell to you you came on
this show probably when we did an
episode a couple years ago and you
shared a really nice question that I use
at the start of sales calls now once
you've done your you know usual building
Rapport how did you stumble up on us
how's it going like
blah blah the rest of it that you do the
common the commonalities at the start of
a call yeah what would you like to have
happen by the end of this sales call
that is one of the most revealing
questions that I've seen that you can
ask oh because then you'll know straight
away whether they're the decision maker
who they've got a report to how serious
they are about the offer um and then I
think you said once you know that follow
up with not sure if we'll get that far
but if by the end of the course kind of
you believe we can help you and I
believe you can help you what happens
next and that you've literally uncovered
the whole truth like all of their
secrets are now revealed how serious
they are yeah so you ask people so can I
ask a question what would be a good
outcome or another one I asked at the
beginning is let's pretend we decide to
work together let's fast forward 12
months it's now October
20124 what will I have done or what will
you be doing differently for you to be
able to say hiring Benjamin was the best
decision we ever made it's what has to
change and then that's when you get them
then they have to come up with something
but often they come up with [__]
wishy-washy stuff which is what I want
because then I get to start to challenge
them my job is to make my Prospect
realize I know more about you and your
problem than you realize and you're only
going to give someone a lot of money if
you genuinely believe they know more
about this than you so my job is to make
you realize you think you know what's
wrong but I don't think you real do and
I'm going to show you that through my
questioning so when they say Well we'd
like to be selling more that's the usual
answer I go well I I I get that I mean
that's that's what everybody say I get I
let me ask you the question a better way
and it's always done to set them
up selling well is the outcome of doing
something well yes so selling badly
would be the outcome of doing something
badly yes so what is it you're doing
that's preventing you selling more or
what is it you're not doing that if you
were doing you'd sell more now now they
have to start thinking it's
uh oh I don't know well see we need to
figure that out because if we don't know
what it is then you're not going to fix
so they're selling more so they always
give you these Pie in the Sky things but
my job is say that's that's a [__]
answer you're not selling for a reason
what is it I don't know that's why I'm
here I'm here to figure it out and if I
can figure it out and you believe I can
fix it what's going to happen between us
well we're probably going to when you
say probably you meant to say you
wouldn't be able to no no no no we would
be right yeah so it's all about
challenging and getting them yeah get
them to paint the picture where do you
want to be what happens if you don't get
there why now I mean you've had this
problem for 12 months why why now what's
changed what's happened what's the
trigger what's motivating you didn't
just wake up one morning and say I think
we need to sell more doesn't happen in a
vacuum so what's going on it's all about
getting the whole picture painted I'm
just there to get to the
truth I just want the truth but I know
the prospect is holding the truth from
me because you can't let Benjamin know
just how badly things are because if he
knew just how bad it
was he'll put his fees
up that's it that's it a lot of a lot of
this a lot of what he shed is about
uncovering the truth but yeah to to kind
of recap as we're we're coming up on
your time and it feels like from what
we've discussed a lot of this about is
about stop blaming external factors so
realize that especially as a look at the
mirror if you're looking for sales
problems exactly and we we it's easily
done like the eom's down or no one
answers the phone anymore or we're not
getting any inbound leads or LinkedIn
reach is going down whatever you want to
blame it's all B we know that because it
was it was like that yesterday for
somebody else like that yesterday for
somebody else it's been like that every
day for someone so yet the economy and
the world has kept turning so no all
those excuses are just procrastination
BS and a lot of this is behavioral right
it's almost like you put into play
Frameworks like I'm going to do this
each day I'm going to make sure that I
do XYZ because I know if I put this
framework into play whether that is a
marketing activity a Content activity or
a sales prospecting activity I know if I
hit these markers each day then in a
couple months time I'm not going to have
to be panicking my ass off because we're
going to have how do you become a
professional golfer a profession swimmer
you don't just say I'm going to go to
the swimming pool every couple of weeks
it's not no I'm there every day at 400
a.m. I do this and then I do this and
then I do then I follow this particular
diet regime and I can't eat this and I
can't and I do this every [__] day
for four years until the
Olympics sales people seem to think I'll
read a couple of books I'll try a few
things and then after that it's
everybody else's
fault markets are no different mate um
yeah there we go Benjamin always a
pleasure or always a true never a
pleasure something like that um but
appreciate you coming on thanks very
much may always enjoy the chats please
do share more about how everyone tuning
in can learn more about yourself connect
with you and and any of your websites
you want to promote yeah so obviously
it's easy to find me UK's most hated
sales trainer so if you Google that
you'll find me LinkedIn it's under my
name or UK's mosted sales trainer and
obviously my website is UK's mosted
sales trainer.com so uh
yeah it's you'd have to be a complete
idiot if you couldn't find me yeah yeah
Benjamin's got plent why I don't work
with a lot of sales
people plenty of good stuff on YouTube
and like I said check out our previous
interviews where we cover a lot of the
stuff we didn't today um so thanks again
Benjamin you'll find all those links to
connect with Benjamin on businessgrowth
do marketing um got to give a quick
shout out to our sponsor D front so if
you're looking for gdpr compliant data
for your goto market sales and marketing
team to drive more leads build up your
pipeline grab your own free demo at deal
front.com and apart from that appreciate
you all tuning in feel free to give us a
quick subscribe on YouTube rating review
on Apple podcast is appreciated catch
you on the next one for more nobs B2B
marketing tips to grow your business
cheers for tuning in